As we discussed during this lesson when prioritizing data science projects for a roadmap,
those projects should be assessed in terms of feasibility,
potential impact, and likelihood of value capture.
It can be tempting to choose the project with
the greatest feasibility and greatest potential impact as a first project.
Here, that would be project 5.
Sometimes simply choosing the project furthest up into
the right might not represent the best choice of a first project.
However, a leader faced with deciding among projects might
wisely choose to launch a roadmap with a project with lesser potential benefit if,
in fact, that project has greater certainty of delivering.
This is especially critical in the initial stages of
data science adoption in order to develop and maintain enthusiasm,
momentum, and continued investment in data science from the business.
In this case, I'd likely choose project 1 as
the first project as the likelihood of success is much greater.
Risk of failure is especially critical
during the initial months of your data science initiative.
Choosing a launch project that will almost certainly deliver and do so relatively
quickly can be the most important consideration
when filling out the data science roadmap.